Hyperwall Script


Script 

1 MAST Title (image)

The Mikulski Archive for Space Telescopes, or MAST, was founded in 1997 as a permanent home for HST and IUE data. 
Today it spans over 40 years worth of observations. 
I'll briefly walk you through some of the exiting data you can access at MAST. 

The next part is a short movie that will go through the various missions we host in our observations database. 
In the background will be a density map of Gaia sources in Galactic coordinates. 
MAST is an Affiliated Data Center and hosts a copy of the Gaia data through all our interfaces. I'll talk more about catalogs later.

2 Missions in MAST (movie) 5 mins

We start with IUE, which launched in 1978 well before MAST even existed. 
It is not the oldest mission we have, though. 
It observed for 18 years, despite having an expected lifetime of only 3 years.
The end of IUE, alongside the rise of Hubble, is what spurred MAST to be created.

We follow up with a handful of small missions carried aboard the Space Shuttle in the early 90s.
Even small missions like these can be impactful.

Now we have EUVE, the Extreme Ultraviolet Explorer. 
We hold the spectroscopy observations in our main database; the all-sky survey is elsewhere and not represented here.
These past 3 missions have all been in the ultraviolet.

HST! We all love Hubble data. It's getting close to 30 years and it's still producing incredible data.
140 TB worth of science data in our observational database alone, not counting calibration files or derived catalogs.

We follow up with FUSE, yet another ultraviolet spectroscopic mission. 
That arc near the Magellanic clouds is a set of calibration data that measured the local background.

GALEX! The Galaxy Evolution Explorer satellite is one of my favorites, both because of the coverage of its ultraviolet survey and because I used its data in my thesis.
Young nearby stars, for example, have active chromospheres that emit lots of UV radiation.

Swift is next, which is an interesting mission since it provides gamma-ray, x-ray, and UV-optical data. 
MAST has a copy of the UV/optical data; you can go to Heasarc to get to the higher energy data.

Kepler! An incredible mission for exoplanet discoveries and asteroseismology, among many other things. Thousands of planet candidates have been discovered with Kepler and K2.
I'm not showing the followup K2 fields here, but we also host them at MAST.

PanSTARRS is a ground based observatory in Haleakala in Maui. 
Over 1 petabyte worth of data covering 3/4s of the sky
I'm not counting here the catalog data, but we'll get to that later.
The gap is due to the location on Earth of the observatory- we can't access the southern hemisphere. 

TESS! The Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite is quickly becoming one of my favorites. 
It's on going and we get new deliveries every month. 
I'll talk more about TESS towards the end.

And last, but certainly not least, are the High-Level Science Products. 
This is where you, the community, come in and build amazing sets of data. 
If you have a clever new reduction algorithm, or a catalog built with some custom extraction routine, or data that relates to our existing missions, we are more than happy to host your work through our databases. 
Other members of the community will be able to quickly and easily find and cite your work when it's hosted at MAST.

3 MAST growing (movie) 1 min

The power of MAST is that all of these missions are available through the same database and with all our interfaces. 
40 years worth of data, 1.4 petabytes of science across 170 million files and the entire sky at your fingertips.

This is a multimission archive- a single search gets you data across all our missions from the ultraviolet to the infrared (especially with JWST launching soon). Most importantly, we offer science-ready data; it's already been calibrated and reduced for you.

With JWST and WFIRST launching soon, MAST will continue to grow.

4 Catalogs: PanSTARRS (image) 1 min

Thus far, we've only talked about observations- images, spectra, timeseries. 
We also host catalogs at MAST. Here I'm showing a density map of PanSTARRS catalog sources, accessible through one of our new interfaces- catalogs.mast. 

This new service also hosts the Hubble Source Catalog and Hubble Catalog of Variables. 
We're planning on providing even more of our catalogs through this interface.

5 Catalogs: exoMAST (image) 1 min

If you research extrasolar planets, you may have already heard about exo.MAST. 
This is a specialized science portal showcasing exoplanet information consolidated from a variety of catalogs, including TESS candidate detections from the mission data. In blue are the candidate detections, while in orange are the confirmed planets from external catalogs. 

This interface links to our observation database, as well as to quick look tools to help you explore the data for each planet and help you plan your proposals.

6 Catalogs: zMAST (image) 1 min

At the other extreme, we're building a new portal specifically for high-redshift work. 
The z.MAST interface is still under development, but we have launched a prototype. You can check it out or stop by the MAST booth for a demo. 
Right now, we have sources from several deep fields, depicted here in blue, and we have plans to add those in orange in the near future.

7 TESS growing (movie) 1 min

It doesn't end there, MAST continues to grow as missions like TESS deliver exciting new data. 
Each month TESS alone delivers roughly 3 terabytes of new data. 
This movie goes up to Sector 16, but we're now up to Sector 18 since we first starting delivering data in December 2018. 
Timeseries data from TESS is helping us find transiting planets, but also transient phenomena like supernova or flares.

And users like you continue to contribute with exciting High-Level Science Products that are permanently archived and accessible through MAST.

8 MAST Final Slide

I'll leave you here with the plot of the coverage of our observations at MAST. You can find us at the MAST booth in the STScI area and we are happy to talk to you about our various tools and get feedback. Now, I'll take any brief questions you may have.

